Install LilyPond
================

Installing directory-only LilyPond for macOS (2020-04-08)
=========================================================

Directory-only installs became available sometime during LilyPond's 2.23.x
development cycle. The "macOS x86 64: LilyPond 2.23.x" link at
https://lilypond.org/development.html downloads an archive that unzips
to a single directory named something like lilypond-2.23.8.

Installing this directory-only distribution means mv lilypond-2.23.8 to (say)
the user home directory and then adding ~/lilypond-2.23.8/bin to the PATH
environment variable.

The shell will then be able to the find ~/lilypond-2.23.8/bin/lilypond. But the
operating system will complain when first running a test file ...

   $ lilypond test.ly

... with a modal that says "lilypond cannot be opened because the developer
cannot be verified" with options only to "Move to Trash" or "Cancel." The
solution requires using the Finder. Navigate to ~/lilypond-2.23.8/bin. Then
right-click on "lilypond" and select "Open" from the context menu that results.
A modal will appear asking whether you are sure you want to open the
application (even though the developer can not be verified). Click "Open" and
close the stray terminal window LilyPond opens when it runs. Calling ...

   $ lilypond test.ly

... from the commandline will then fail again, this time a modal that says that
the developer of ghostscript ("gs") can not be identifier. The solution is the
same. Use the Finder to navigate to ~/lilypond-2.23.8/libexec. Then right-click
on "gs" and select "Open" from the context menu that results. Then select
"Open" in the following modal. Use ctrl-D to quit Ghostscript and the close the
terminal window it opens when it runs. Then calling ...

   $ lilypond test.ly

... will work.

But the process has to be repeated for covert-ly. Calling ...

   $ convert-ly test.ly

... summons a modal that says that the developer of the copy of "python3.9"
(bundled with LilyPond) can not be identified. Use the Finder to navigate back to
~/lilypond-2.23.8/libexec and right-click on python3.9. Select "Open with ..."
(instead of "Open") in the context menu because macOS claims to not know how to
open the application. Scroll down and select TextEdit (or any other
application) to open the file. Close the application after it opens the file.
Then calling ...

   $ convert-ly test.ly

... will work.
